# Note: This document was generated by a human

I spent ~ (8.38am to ) time to read through requirements, brainstorm potential solutions, note down my thoughts

# Summary

This document outlines the thought process.

- Original Instructions (copy-pasted) can be found in `original_instructions.md`
- Frontend: Streamlit
- Backend: No backend required, functions coded in app.py



# Thought Process (Full)

- Looks like a fun project!

- Frontend logic: Create Streamlit App 
  - Benefits
    - on streamlit is easier to manage frontend and backend
    - Experience with developing and deploying streamlit apps (since mid 2023)
  - Downside
    - Hard to customize front-end webpage (not critical in this assignment)

- Backend logic
  - Do we require another backend (e.g FastAPI / Flask) to host our bot + ingestion?
    - Benefit: separately managed, clearer distinction 
    - Downside: Cannot be pushed into one repo
  - Decision - use streamlit for this app first and all methods in app.py, project currently still quite small. 

- OpenAI logic
  - model: use latest GPT 5.2 Chat model
    - Cost benefit analysis: most friendly, highly accurate, can 
    - As opposed to GPT-5.2 (Thinks longer, and most importantly higher costs)
    - As opposed to GPT 4o mini (slightly cheaper by 20% but performance drop with older models)
    - Or models from huggingface: require 1. Hosting of the model, or huggingface token, and performance may not be as strong as GPT 5.2 Chat
  - embeddings: use text-embedding-3-large
    - on MTEB, currently ranked 32 for multilingual, 73 for English
    - costs slightly higher, but from experience, high accuracy 
    - especially for multi-lingual texts, higher accuracy compared to other models
  - also, we are already using OpenAI stack, easier to maintain 1 model

- Chatbot logic
  - Chat history is required - do we need to implement complex buffer for conversation history?
  - Sliding window (e.g. last 3): simplest to implement
    - downside is it will lose memory for anything beyond. 
  - Delete by tokens? More complex, require tiktoken, may not get best results if message was trimmed incorrectly (same as chunking)
  - Summarize when exceed - useful if need to retain long contexts
    - BUT for this use case, not really required for now
  - semantic retrieval - get the most relevant chats? 
    - also quite overkill, even more so than chat history summary
  - verdict is to just use slding window first

- Ingestion logic - What do we want to ingest? how to ingest?
  - NOW: PDF.
    - PDF can just ingest section by section
    - Preprocessing done manually for now
    - Considerations: 
      - Line by line - will not retain context for which job / section it is from
      - Chunk by chunk - chunking strategy may cut off long experiences, same issue with line by line 
  - Future: create a dynamic ingestion logic for
    - PDF
    - Websites
    - LinkedIn...?

- RAG Vector Store logic - Host on local (e.g. FAISS), Pinecone, other services?
  - Currently data is small
  - FAISS on local shall be sufficient
  - In future, if required, can move to other vector store index

- Retrieval logic - Agent? or tool call with RAG? or ALWAYS use RAG? or just hard code the entire resume?
  - Agent route
    - A lot more functionalities - can add more tools in the future easily
    - Tool logic can be separated from agent easier. Especially when scaling - source might not just be Resume, can be API call, LinkedIn scraping, Link to personal website, etcetc
    - Debugging might be easier
    - BUT --- might be overkill for now? ONLY need 1 PDF
    - More reasoning steps, more higher costs too
  - Always call tool
    - Will be certain it has context. 
    - BUT will require rephrasing + searching, may be unnecessary 
      - Token costs will spike too
    - Cannot dynamically call tools if first retrieval does not return result (perhaps due to poor phrasing)
  - Tool call with RAG
    - Call only when required. Best approach for this use case for now?
  - Hardcode resume (into system prompt / chat history)
    - Easiest method. 
    - Feels sufficient for this use case...
    - BUT not scalable
  - Verdict - use RAG with tool call to demonstrate my capabilities (instead of hardcode) + it is part of requirements!! 

## Prompt requirements
- Cannot hallucinate. 
- Must stop jailbreak attempts
- Must be accurate!! 
- Possible: citations - include chunk and citation to the original document as in-line citations 
  - may be overkill for small project. not needed for now
  - may be needed for larger projects that require accuracy, e.g. Insurance related products! 
- Potential solution: 
  - Preprocessing - Ensure that the query is NOT a jailbreak attempt (e.g. ignore all previous instructions, DAN, etc)
  - System prompt integration - Embed in prompt to check user query, if attempted jailbreak, say cannot
    - e.g. Do not answer the data is not found in the results. When in doubt, say "I don't know"
  - Postprocessing - check if data is found in RAG chunk

Decision: stick to system prompt integration for now, then we do testing afterwards. If required, add pre or post processing


## Testing + Evaluation + Jailbreak attempt
- Use claude to generate jailbreak attempts for testing
- Given PDF, claude can generate the questions and "Correct" answers in one-pass
  - Did not choose this method since we are supposed to build a scalable solution. See section above on retrieval logic
- Possibly use RAGAS? BUT might be overkill for small project. Can just do simple testing
- Metrics for evaluation: Precision / recall / f1 score?
  - Evaluation on chunk retrieval (likely pass, since using commercial model of text-embedding-3-large. just to do sensecheck)
  - Evaluation on LLM output

- TO DO: EVALUATION FOR LATENCY TOO!!
  - Implement by using timeit? 
  - Or run a separate evaluation.py script?
    - Go with evaluation.py. Need to make sure it evaluates properly.


# Implementation (9.02am)

- Chat with Claude to review and plan based on my thought process above (using Claude Sonnet 4.6)
- Create testing dataset based on my resume
- 
- Create comprehensive instruction chunks - one instruction for each portion 
  - One for ingestion of Resume into FAISS
  - One for frontend streamlit with logic (dummy function to return "This bot is working")
  - One for integrating RAG using FAISS CPU
  - One for testing and evaluation with RAG accuracy + jailbreak attempts
  - Final one for README

# Future plans (Scalability)
- To include customizable profiles
- To create ingestion pipeline on the backend, and users can input their 
  - Resume (PDF / Word / plaintext)
  - LinkedIn
  - Personal website scraper (Selenium / simple requests.get call if website is not blocked by e.g. cloudflare)
  - Other sources of information 
- Linking the customizable profiles into ingestion pipelines
- To include LinkedIn



# Compiled 9.02am (to look at task + write down thoughts + plan)